This problem was asked by PagerDuty.

Given a positive integer `N`, find the smallest number of steps it will take to reach `1`.

There are two kinds of permitted steps:
* You may decrement `N` to `N - 1`.
* If `a * b = N`, you may decrement `N` to the larger of `a` and `b`.

For example, given `100`, you can reach `1` in five steps with the following route: `100 -> 10 -> 9 -> 3 -> 2 -> 1`.
","solution":"One approach to solving this problem is to use breadth-first search.

We will maintain a queue whose values are tuples containing an integer and the number of moves needed to reach that number. To start, this will be `[(N, 0)]`.

For each element that we pop from the queue, the potential next steps will be one less than the element, plus all valid divisors. Each of these will be appended to the queue, along with an incremented move count.

Once we pop the element `1` from our queue, we have found the shortest path, and can return the number of moves required.

```python
from collections import deque

def get_divisors(n):
    divisors = []
    for i in range(int(n ** 0.5), 1, -1):
        if n % i == 0:
            divisors.append(n // i)
    return divisors

def steps(n):
    queue = deque([(n, 0)])
    visited = set()

    while queue:
        num, moves = queue.popleft()
        visited.add(num)

        if num == 1:
            return moves

        candidates = get_divisors(num) + [num - 1]
        for c in candidates:
            if c not in visited:
                queue.append((c, moves + 1))
```

Evaluating the running time of this solution is a bit tricky. Typically breadth-first search can be said to have `O(b`<sup>`d`</sup>`)` complexity, where `b` is the branching factor and `d` is the shortest path.

Here, the branching factor is the average number of divisors visited for each element. The average divisor count for integers between `0` and `N` is around `O(log N)`. However, we are not equally likely to visit each number between `0` and `N`. This is because each time we divide, we are cutting down the search space of integers significantly, so that `b` is closer to `O(log log N)`.

Meanwhile, exactly determining `d` in general is fairly challenging. In our case, we can say that for input values up to `2`<sup>`31`</sup>, it is extremely rare to see a path longer than `10`, so we will use this as an upper bound.

Therefore, the number of items that move through the queue will be bounded by `O((log log N)`<sup>`10`</sup>`)`. For any given element `M`, calculating its divisors will take `O(M`<sup>`3/2`</sup>`)` time. Overall, then, this algorithm will be `O((log log N)`<sup>`15`</sup>`)`.

Alternatively, we can solve this using a dynamic programming approach.

We will initialize a `distance` array, where each element represents the number of steps required to get from that element to `1`. At first, we set each value of each element `i` to `i - 1`, since in the worst case we could decrement repeatedly until reaching `1`.

Next, we loop through each array element and find all possible next steps. Similar to the above algorithm, these will consist of one less than the value, and all divisors of the value. If for any of these steps, `distance[value] > distance[step] + 1`, we update the element to this lower value.

Finally, we return the last element in the array, representing the shortest path from `N` to `1`.

```python
def steps(n):
    distance = [i - 1 for i in range(n + 1)]

    for i in range(1, n + 1):
        for j in range(int(i ** 0.5), 1, -1):
            if i % j == 0:
                distance[i] = min(distance[i], distance[i // j] + 1)
        distance[i] = min(distance[i], distance[i - 1] + 1)

    return distance[-1]
```

The time complexity of this algorithm is worse, but mercifully simpler to calculate. Our outer loop iterates through values `1` to `N`, while our inner loop goes up to the square root of the element being looked at. Therefore, this algorithm will run in `O(N`<sup>`3/2`</sup>`)` time and `O(N)` space.



